[Music]
hey kids if you've ever been Black
Friday shopping or visited the Diablo
subreddit recently chances are you've
encountered mass hysteria at some point
mass hysteria is known medically as mass
psychogenic illness or mpi for short
it's basically just when a bunch of
people start acting a fool for no
discernible reason other than maybe a
stressful environment being that this
sort of thing is naturally very
noticeable there's loads of documented
cases found all throughout history let's
take a look at a few this first one is
what made me make this video in the
first place so one day sometime in the
Middle Ages a group of nuns in a French
convent or enjoying a quiet uneventful
day until one of them decided to start
meowing you know like a cat you'd think
this would last all of four seconds
before another nun was like excuse me
sister Gertrude would you kindly cut the
[__] but instead another nun joined in
and another until basically the entire
nunnery was exchanging mouths like a
group of Communists trading card
enthusiasts this wasn't just a one-time
thing either it basically became
integrated into their way of life it
said that on a given day they would
stand there meowing in each other's
faces for hours at a time could you
imagine being the first outsider to
witness this you might laugh now but as
they say everybody gangsta til the nun
start meowing I'd void my bowels and
moved to Malaysia without even thinking
miles more terrifying than this pile of
garbage as you can imagine though after
a while it stopped being scary and just
got annoying leading to the neighbors
calling in a band of soldiers to deal
with the situation hey guys can we talk
to you for a second bout oh yeah that
all due respect but we have orders to
literally beat the hell out of you with
whips till you start acting like people
again sorry sir it's just force of habit
ha ha have it seriously though we would
rather go to hell for throttling a
gaggle of nuns than put up with another
minute of your [__] caprese our next
event took place in the parish of Fatima
Portugal in the year 1917 it all started
with three Shepherd children ages 10 9
and 7 respectively
they were like greetings fellow
Portuguese Yeats we've been seeing
visions of the Virgin Mary and she told
us to tell you that some real crazy
shit's gonna go
in the sky on October 13th now if three
random farm children started spouting
out prophecies to the public today you'd
say huh what tomfoolery go play in some
dirty dirty little dirt baby but keep in
mind the past is a different country and
Portugal is a different country so
that's like different countries squirty
got to think about Plus this was during
World War one a time where a lot of
people were holding out for a miracle to
begin with so the kids story was
actually picked up and even spread by
local newspapers to the point where when
the day finally came at least 30,000
people gathered in Fatima to witness the
alleged miracle lo and behold on that
day the Sun began zooming around
careening towards Earth and sending rays
of multicolored light cascading across
the sky creating a light show like
nobody's ever seen keep in mind this
happened in the 20th century way after
the era where belief in divine jiggery
and/or Pokkiri was considered mandatory
so naturally there are plenty of
skeptics and non-believers present and
even they saw it all happen or so they
thought how do we know the Sun didn't
really whiz around haphazardly that day
hmm well number one use your freaking
brain and number two accounts differed
wildly from person to person while some
say the Sun zigged hither others say
it's zagged thither and other still said
it shined a brilliant yellow and stayed
perfectly still as such it was
eventually concluded that the event was
just a combination of MPI and weird eye
stuff from too much Sun staring although
I'd like to believe it was real just
that Jesus's illusion skill was way
higher than his alteration at the time
yep that's it Sam's going to hell why
for blasphemy trust me that was the
least offensive part of that joke
our next tale took place in 1962 in
Tanganyika which is basically just the
beta version of Tanzania the nation had
just declared its independence from
Britain the previous year and with the
future so uncertain tensions were
naturally running high around this time
one little girl in atanga Nick in school
ended up handling the stress in a bit of
an unusual way rather than overeating or
staring at her ceiling for hours like a
normal person she just started laughing
and laughing and laughing
pretty soon her classmates at the
all-girls school she attended began to
join in to the point where 95 of the 159
students called the giggle ease which
lasted anywhere from a few hours to 16
days straight
beyond just the unprovoked cackling
other odd behavior included aimless
running and occasional violence the
problem got so severe that the school
was forced to close down temporarily
leading to the chortles roaming the
streets spreading the affliction further
thousands of people from all strata came
to be affected with 13 additional
schools being shut down in the progress
over the course of the hysteria several
other symptoms began to present
themselves as well ranging from obvious
ones such as breathing problems fainting
random screaming to more anomalous
things like rashes despite all this no
physical cause could be found leaving
MPI is the only explanation the epidemic
finally died down after between 6 and 18
months of day-in day-out laughter
depending on the village while this
whole thing likely sucked for most
people involved it probably could have
been worse
a lot of the time when I'm alone I'll
think to myself man if I ever go full
schizo I hope I'm one of the laughy ones
not one of the screamy ones with this
story in mind just maybe if I put my
mind to it and believe hard enough I can
be both flashback to the year 1518 did
the city of Strasbourg at the time part
of the H re a woman named mrs. trophy
began fervently dancing in the streets
for no discernible reason for hours then
days all without music of course her
only breaks consisted of occasional food
intake and passing out from exhaustion
when night came if you saw that today
you just be like huh drugs but
apparently people found it pretty
inspiring because within a week 34
others had joined in and after a month
there around 400 this wasn't your casual
bobbing up and down needed this [__]
made Zumba look like Tai Chi here's the
best modern day simulation I could find
[Music]
now imagine that both of those people
were the same person and you got the
dancing plague this would take a toll in
any healthy person let alone a medieval
city dweller
but despite bleeding feet and aching
bones they just kept going in fact they
went so hard for so long that a good
portion straight-up [__] died from
cardiac arrest it got to the point where
around 15 dancers were kicking the
bucket every day before the city decided
they had to do something about it
they managed to rule out any divine or
supernatural causes which was necessary
just cuz young back in medieval times I
was [__] stupid they eventually
surmised that it was a natural diseased
caused by too much hot blood as per that
whole four humors thing that was popular
at the time as for a cure their
prescription was get this more dancing I
can see where they were coming from it's
pretty sound logic if you got a song
stuck in your head you play it till
you're sick of it same kind of thing but
here's where they goofed the authorities
actually went out of their way to
facilitate the dancing setting up a big
stage area and even hiring musicians to
keep the afflicted moving all this
achieved was attracting more passerby
who are like man mass psychogenic
illness looks freaking epic let's get in
on that
causing the contagion to become even
more widespread seeing that their
solution backfired the city then went
the other way and completely banned any
public dancing those who still showed
signs of the mania were subsequently
carted off to the shrine of Saint Vitas
where an exorcism like ritual was
performed on them this ended up being
highly effective presumably for no other
reason than that the dancers believed it
would work and after nearly two months
the plague was quelled well this whole
thing was most likely a case of good
old-fashioned MPI some historians
believe it might have been egged on in
part by arrghh 'it is amassed ate of
psychosis brought on by eating tainted
bread which i talked a little bit about
in this video
ding and hey while i'm shilling for my
channel i might as well give a shout-out
to another as well today's video was
sponsored by cheddar a network focused
on producing fascinating content
covering topics like technology products
businesses and the like through the lens
of innovation here's one about desire
paths you know like those lines of dead
grass from people taking more convenient
rousu places it's one of those things
that plenty of us have thought about but
never actually explored in depth like
this video
chair is full of intriguing stuff like
that I highly recommend giving them a
look if you're more science oriented
they still got you covered with their
cheddar Explorer series the
all about how he can be sure if his
species is really extinct or not they
talk a bit about animals we thought were
gone that suddenly reappeared out of
nowhere super interesting go check it
out anyway that's all for today until
next time I'm salmonella and thank you
for watching
[Music]